---
layout: post
title: "Favourite Movies"
author: Jono
published: true
date: 2026-01-02 05:51:43 -0000
categories: 
- film
---

Here's a list of movies that have left a lasting impression on me. It's hard to define a list of favourite movies when I can't hold the names of all of the movies that I've loved in my head at once and my mood changes over time. I was also sure I'd already done this list so if that ever resurfaces then it'll be interesting to compare. I've attempted to group my preferred movie genres but obviously many of these movies cross genres... and (don't hate me) I've grouped movie franchises and sometimes directors where there are so many greats from one director.

Action Thriller/Spy/Cold War
----------------------------

1.  Hackers

2.  Bond (GoldenEye, The Living Daylights & Casino Royale)

3.  The Hunt For Red October

4.  Die Hard & Die Hard 2

5.  Pulp Fiction (and also Kill Bill, Inglourious Basterds, The Hateful Eight)

6.  Indiana Jones (Original 3)

7.  The Bourne Identity

8.  Where Eagles Dare

9.  Zero Dark Thirty

10. Anna (Luc Besson)

11. Bullet Train

12. Atomic Blonde

13. Inception

14. Hard Rain


Murder/Mystery
--------------

1.  Clue

2.  Sleuth (1972)

3.  The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo

4.  Ex Machina

5.  The Menu

6.  The Game

7.  Knives Out



Space Sci-fi
------------

1.  Moon (and Mute)

2.  Alien & Aliens

3.  Sputnik

4.  Interstellar

5.  The Martian

6.  The Fifth Element

7.  Arrival



Zombie & Monster Sci-fi
-----------------------

1.  Nope

2.  Ghostbusters (Melissa McCarthy, Kristen Wiig, Kate McKinnon), Ghostbusters (Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Sigourney Weaver, Harold Ramis, Rick Moranis)

3.  Zombieland & Zombieland 2: Double Tap

4.  Cloverfield

5.  Monsters (2010)

6.  It Follows

7.  Edge Of Tomorrow (Live Die Repeat)

8.  Chappie



Superhero
---------

1.  Iron Man, Avengers: Endgame, Deadpool 1 & 2, Guardians of the Galaxy

2.  Split, Glass & Unbreakable

3.  The Dark Knight & Rises



Artsy
-----

1.  Parasite

2.  The Peanut Butter Falcon

3.  Drive

4.  The Grand Budapest Hotel

5.  Whiplash

6.  Jo Jo Rabbit

7.  Searching For Sugar Man

8.  Three Thousand Years of Longing

9.  Amsterdam (2022)

10. Triangle of Sadness

11. Everything Everywhere All At Once

12. The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent



Teen
----

1.  Empire Records

2.  The last 5 Harry Potter movies

3.  Muppet Christmas Carol

4.  Big Hero Six

5.  Ferris Bueller's Day Off

6.  Elf

7.  Spontaneous

8.  Turning Red

9.  Nerve

10. Hunt For The Wilderpeople

11. In Your Eyes



Musical
-------

1.  Rocky Horror Picture Show

2.  Hamilton

3.  God Help The Girl


I'll add others here when I remember them! And if you're looking for a single most important movie to me? Empire Records. It was the movie that soundtracked the end of high-school and it's aged surprisingly well. 
